[docs] Batch14 changes to hll functions (#4)
edgar2020/druid: docs/querying/sql-functions.md

## APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL

> Approximates distinct values of a HLL sketch column or a regular column. See [DataSketches HLL Sketch module](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) for a description of optional parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the approximate number of distinct values in a HLL sketch column or a regular column. See [DataSketches HLL Sketch module](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) for a description of optional parameters.
```

> Approximates distinct values of an HLL sketch column or a regular column. The [HLL sketch documentation](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) describes the optional `lgK` and `tgtHllType` arguments.

Reviewer: Since you don't introduce the syntax until line 121, it's best not to mention parameters on line 119. Instead, you can do something like this:

> See [DataSketches HLL Sketch module](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) for a description of optional parameters.

* **Syntax:** `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL(expr, [lgK, tgtHllType])`
* **Function type:** Aggregation

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example returns the approximate number of distinct tail numbers in the `flight_carriers` datasource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example returns the approximate number of distinct tail numbers in the `flight-carriers` datasource.
```

```sql
SELECT APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL("Tail_Number") AS "estimate"
FROM "flight-carriers"
```

Returns the following:

| `estimate` |
| -- |

> | `4686` |

Reviewer: I got 4,686

Author: Discussed with Charles on another PR, visibly it returns `4,686`. But if you select show full value it shows `4686`. Charles was not against the format without a comma

## DS_HLL

> Creates an HLL sketch on a column containing HLL sketches or a regular column. The [HLL sketch documentation](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) describes the optional `lgK` and `tgtHllType` arguments.

Reviewer: Same comment as https://github.com/edgar2020/druid/pull/4/files#r1753076652. Also, this should say parameters instead of arguments. 

> Parameters define the type and number of inputs a function can accept. An argument is the actual value that is passed to the function or method when it is called.

* **Syntax:**`DS_HLL(expr, [lgK, tgtHllType])`
* **Function type:** Aggregation

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example creates a HLL sketch on the `Tail_number` column from the `flight-carriers` dataset, grouping by `OriginState` and `DestState`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a HLL sketch on the `Tail_number` column of the `flight-carriers` datasource grouping by `OriginState` and `DestState`.
```

> The following example creates an HLL sketch on the `Tail_number` column from the `flight-carriers` dataset, grouping by `originState` and `DestState`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates an HLL sketch on the `Tail_number` column from the `flight-carriers` dataset, grouping by `OriginState` and `DestState`.
```

## HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE

> Returns a distinct count estimate from a HLL sketch. To round the distinct count estimate, set `round` to true. Otherwise, `round` defaults to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the distinct count estimate from a HLL sketch. To round the distinct count estimate, set `round` to true. `round` defaults to false.
```

* **Syntax:** `HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE(expr, [round])`
* **Function type:** Scalar, sketch

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example estimates the number of unique tail numbers in the `flight-carriers` datasource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example estimates the distinct number of unique tail numbers in the `flight-carriers` datasource.
```

```sql
SELECT
  HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE(DS_HLL("Tail_Number")) AS "estimate"
FROM "flight-carriers"
```

Returns the following:

| `estimate` | 
| -- |
| `4685.8815405960595` |

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#sketch-functions)

## HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE_WITH_ERROR_BOUNDS

> Returns the distinct count estimate and error bounds from a HLL sketch. To specify the number of standard deviations of the bounds use `numStdDev`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the distinct count estimate and error bounds from a HLL sketch. To specify the number of standard bound deviations, use `numStdDev`.
```

* **Syntax:** `HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE_WITH_ERROR_BOUNDS(expr, [numStdDev])`
* **Function type:** Scalar, sketch

<details><summary>Example</summary>

The following example estimates the number of unique tail numbers in the `flight-carriers` datasource with error bounds at plus or minus one standard deviation.

```sql
SELECT
  HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE_WITH_ERROR_BOUNDS(DS_HLL("Tail_Number"), 1) AS "estimate_with_errors"
FROM "flight-carriers"
```

Returns the following:

| `estimate_with_errors` |
| -- |
| `[4685.8815405960595,4611.381540678335,4762.978259800803]` |

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#sketch-functions)

## HLL_SKETCH_TO_STRING

Returns a human-readable string representation of a HLL sketch for debugging.

* **Syntax:** `HLL_SKETCH_TO_STRING(expr)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, sketch

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example returns the HLL sketch on column `Tail_Number` from the `flight-carriers` as a human-readable string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example returns the HLL sketch on column `Tail_Number` from the `flight-carriers` datasource as a human-readable string.
```

```sql
SELECT
  HLL_SKETCH_TO_STRING( DS_HLL("Tail_Number") ) AS "summary"
FROM "flight-carriers"
```

Returns the following:

<table>
<tr>
<td><code>summary</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

```
### HLL SKETCH SUMMARY: 
  Log Config K   : 12
  Hll Target     : HLL_4
  Current Mode   : HLL
  Memory         : false
  LB             : 4611.381540678335
  Estimate       : 4685.8815405960595
  UB             : 4762.978259800803
  OutOfOrder Flag: true
  CurMin         : 0
  NumAtCurMin    : 1316
  HipAccum       : 0.0
  KxQ0           : 2080.7755126953125
  KxQ1           : 0.0
  Rebuild KxQ Flg: false
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#sketch-functions)

## HLL_SKETCH_UNION

Returns a union of HLL sketches. See [DataSketches HLL Sketch module](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) for a description of optional parameters.

* **Syntax:** `HLL_SKETCH_UNION([lgK, tgtHllType], expr0, expr1, ...)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, sketch

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example estimates the union of the HLL sketch of tail numbers that took off from `CA` and the HLL sketch of tail numbers that took off from `TX`. The examples uses the `Tail_Number` and `OriginState` columns from the `flight-carriers` datasource. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example estimates the union of the HLL sketch of tail numbers that took off from `CA` and the HLL sketch of tail numbers that took off from `TX`. The example uses the `Tail_Number` and `OriginState` columns from the `flight-carriers` datasource. 
```

## HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE

> Returns the distinct count estimate from an HLL sketch. The `expr` argument must return an HLL sketch. The optional `round` boolean argument rounds the estimate if set to true, with a default of false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a distinct count estimate from an HLL sketch. To round the distinct count estimate, set `round` to true. Otherwise, `round` defaults to false.
```
`expr` is a parameter, not an argument. It doesn't return anything. 
It's obvious from the function syntax that `round` is optional.

* **Syntax:** `HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE(expr, [round])`
* **Function type:** Scalar, sketch

<details><summary>Example</summary>

The following example estimates the number of unique tail numbers in the `flight-carriers` datasource.

```sql
SELECT

>   HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE(DS_HLL("Tail_Number"), False) AS "estimate"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE(DS_HLL("Tail_Number")) AS "estimate"
```
`round` defaults to false, so you don't need to include it.

FROM "flight-carriers"
```

Returns the following:

| `estimate` | 
| -- |
| `4,685.8815405960595` |

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#sketch-functions)

## HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE_WITH_ERROR_BOUNDS

> Returns the distinct count estimate and error bounds from an HLL sketch. The `expr` argument must return an HLL sketch. The optional round `numStdDev` argument rounds the estimate if set to true, with a default of false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a distinct count estimate and error bounds from an HLL sketch. The optional round `numStdDev` argument To round the distinct count estimate, set `numStdDev` to true. Otherwise, `numStdDev` defaults to false.
```

> Returns the distinct count estimate and error bounds from an HLL sketch. The `expr` argument must return an HLL sketch. The optional round `numStdDev` argument rounds the estimate if set to true, with a default of false.

Reviewer: The description of `numStdDev` is wrong. It doesn't match https://github.com/edgar2020/druid/pull/4/files#diff-8dd209ceecd603b2cb07842bdf43b0726834c1bd30562c00ae51cb74cb9be3cbR227

* **Syntax:** `HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE_WITH_ERROR_BOUNDS(expr, [numStdDev])`
* **Function type:** Scalar, sketch

<details><summary>Example</summary>

The following example estimates the number of unique tail numbers in the `flight-carriers` datasource with error bounds at plus or minus one standard deviation.

```sql
SELECT
  HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE_WITH_ERROR_BOUNDS(DS_HLL("Tail_Number"), 1) AS "estimate_with_errors"
FROM "flight-carriers"
```

Returns the following:

| `estimate_with_errors` |
| -- |

> | `[4685.8815405960595, 4536.952802775876, 4839.925808688653]` |

Reviewer: I got the following:
[4685.8815405960595,4611.381540678335,4762.978259800803]

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#sketch-functions)

## HLL_SKETCH_TO_STRING

> Returns a human-readable string representation of an HLL sketch for debugging. The `expr` argument must return an HLL sketch.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to include this sentence for every HLL function:

> The `expr` argument must return an HLL sketch.

To me, it's clear from the description that the function works on HLL sketches. Also `expr` is not an argument. It's a parameter and it doesn't return anything.

Author: Removing the sentence and will start distinguishing parameter and argument

* **Syntax:** `HLL_SKETCH_TO_STRING(expr)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, sketch

<details><summary>Example</summary>

The following example returns the HLL sketch on column `Tail_Number` from the `flight-carriers` as a human-readable string.

```sql
SELECT
  HLL_SKETCH_TO_STRING( DS_HLL("Tail_Number") ) AS "summary"
FROM "flight-carriers"
```

Returns the following:

<table>
<tr>
<td><code>summary</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

```
### HLL SKETCH SUMMARY: 
  Log Config K   : 12
  Hll Target     : HLL_4
  Current Mode   : HLL
  Memory         : false
  LB             : 4611.381540678335
  Estimate       : 4685.8815405960595
  UB             : 4762.978259800803
  OutOfOrder Flag: true
  CurMin         : 0
  NumAtCurMin    : 1316
  HipAccum       : 0.0
  KxQ0           : 2080.7755126953125
  KxQ1           : 0.0
  Rebuild KxQ Flg: false
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#sketch-functions)

## HLL_SKETCH_UNION

> Returns a union of HLL sketches, where each input expression must return an HLL sketch. The [HLL sketch documentation](../development//extensions-core//datasketches-hll.md) describes the optional `lgK` and `tgtHllType` arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a union of HLL sketches, where each input expression is an HLL sketch. See [DataSketches HLL Sketch module](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) for a description of optional parameters.
```

* **Syntax:** `HLL_SKETCH_UNION([lgK, tgtHllType], expr0, expr1, ...)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, sketch

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example estimates the number of unique tail numbers that took off from California or Texas by estimating on the union of the HLL sketch of tail numbers that took off from `CA` and the HLL sketch of tail numbers that took off from `TX` from the `flight-carriers` datasource. 

Reviewer: This sentence is too long. Consolidate the information or split the sentence into two to improve readability.

```sql
SELECT
  HLL_SKETCH_ESTIMATE(
    HLL_SKETCH_UNION( 
      DS_HLL("Tail_Number") FILTER(WHERE "OriginState" = 'CA'),
      DS_HLL("Tail_Number") FILTER(WHERE "OriginState" = 'TX')
    )
  ) AS "estimate_union"
FROM "flight-carriers"
```

Returns the following:

| `estimate_union` |
| -- |

> | `4204.798431046455` |

Reviewer: I got 4,204.798431046455

Author: https://github.com/edgar2020/druid/pull/4#discussion_r1755527862
